New telemetry docs (#4129)
apollographql/router: docs/source/configuration/metrics.mdx

---
title: Router Metrics
subtitle: Export Apollo Router metrics for Prometheus and OpenTelemetry
description: Export and collect metrics from the Apollo Router with Prometheus and OpenTelemetry Collector.
---

The Apollo Router exports metrics for collection by [Prometheus](./exporters/prometheus) and [OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP)](./exporters/opentelemetry), with support for [Datadog via OTLP](./exporters/datadog-otlp).

In `router.yaml`, you configure router metrics with the following settings:

- `telemetry.metrics.common`. Configure values for the router and common across metrics exporters.
- `telemetry.metrics.prometheus`. Configure the Prometheus exporter.
- `telemetry.metrics.otlp`. Configure the OpenTelemetry exporter. Supports sending traces to Datadog.

## Configure common metrics settings

Common settings for router metrics include:

* [Service name](#service-name)
* [Resource attributes](#resource)
* [Custom historgram buckets](#custom-histogram-buckets)

### Service name

Set a service name for your router metrics so they can be easily searched and found in your metrics dashboards. 

> The service name can be set by an environment variable or in `router.yaml`, with the following order of precedence (first to last):

Reviewer: Hmm, will rewrite this to something like `Read the list in order, and apply the first one that's set.`

---
title: Router Metrics
subtitle: Export Apollo Router metrics for Prometheus and OpenTelemetry
description: Export and collect metrics from the Apollo Router with Prometheus and OpenTelemetry Collector.
---

The Apollo Router exports metrics for collection by [Prometheus](#using-prometheus) and [OpenTelemetry Collector](#using-opentelemetry-collector), with support for [Datadog via OpenTelemetry]().

In `router.yaml`, you configure router metrics within the following settings:

> - `telemetry.metrics.common`. Configure values for the router and common across metrics exporters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `telemetry.metrics.common`. Configure values for the router which are common across metrics exporters.
```
